Examples regarding the semantic linearity using fragmented usage environment

```haskell
case <expensive> of
   K a b -> <expensive>
```
será que <expensive> só está a ser consumido uma vez?
semanticamente?


```haskell
case <expensive_expr> of z
   K A b -> <expr_using_same_lin_vars_from_expensive_expr_but_does_not_use_b>
   K B d -> ...d...
   K c d -> ...z... (nem c nem d)
   K A B -> ...z..z...z... (muitas vezes)
```
Também depois temos de pensar no EmptyCase, com ambas as variantes, que acabamos por não pensar mas nesta altura já me sinto um pouco mais confiante

Uma coisa que podemos tentar fazer é arranjar uma prova de que isto não duplica os recursos lineares.
i.e. não há nenhuma forma de provar a -o (a,a)
Parece-me linear hah, mas não é fácil dizer se sim ou não:

```haskell
f :: [a] -o [a]
f xs = case map (+1) xs of
         [] -> []
         (y:ys) -> reverse xs
```

Fundamentalmente, a ideia diz que nos branches,
```
(y:ys) -> reverse xs
```
Temos disponíveis todos os recursos do scrutinee (xs neste caso), e há 3 formas de o consumir:
Usando o case binder, que tem sempre usage environment igual aos recursos utilizados on scrutinee
Usando y e ys, que cada um tem metade do usage environment do scrutinee
Usando diretamente os recursos do usage environment


Vamos a coisas mais arrojadas:

```haskell
f :: IO ()
f = do
    handle1 <- openFile "test.txt" ReadMode
    handle2 <- hPutStrLn handle1 "hello there"
    () <- hClose handle2
    return (Ur ())

===>

f :: RealWorld# -> (# (), RealWorld# #)
f rw0 =
  case openFile "test.txt" ReadMode rw0 of
    (# handle1, rw1 #) ->
      case hPutStrLn handle1 "hello there" rw1 of
        (# handle2, rw2 #) ->
          case hClose handle2 rw2 of
            (# (), rw3 #) ->
              return (# Ur (), rw3 #)
```
Looking at the desugared form, if we re-used the usage environment of the
scrutinee instead of the bound variables, would it still be correct?

```haskell
  case hClose handle2 of z
    (# (), rw3 #) ->
      return (# Ur (), rw3 #)
=====>
  case hClose handle2 rw2 of z
    (# (), rw3 #) ->
        case hClose handle2 rw2 of -- well-typed double free
            (# (), rw4 #) -> return (# Ur (), rw4 #)
```

não há forma nenhuma de `handle2` poder voltar a ser usada na sua alternativa...


Definition 2.1 (Consume exactly once).
• To consume a value of atomic base type (like Int or Ptr) exactly once, just evaluate it.
• To consume a function value exactly once, apply it to one argument, and consume its result
exactly once.
• To consume a pair exactly once, pattern-match on it, and consume each component exactly
once.
• In general, to consume a value of an algebraic datatype exactly once, pattern-match on it,
and consume all its linear components exactly once (Sec. 2.5)1.


It seems this is more tied in with the notion of evaluation than I had
originally thought about.

-----

In reality, the rule for the case alternatives should consider the type, and if
the type is an atomic base type, then we substitute the linear things by \cdot?

---

Consider

f x = letrec go y = case x of z { (a,b) -> ...(expensive z)... }
        in ...

If we do the reverse binder-swap we get

f x = letrec go y = case x of z { (a,b) -> ...(expensive x)... }
        in ...

and now we can float out:

f x = let t = expensive x
        in letrec go y = case x of z { (a,b) -> ...(t)... }
        in ...

Now (expensive x) is computed once, rather than once each time around the 'go' loop..

Worse, can't we type the double free right now?

```haskell
  case hClose handle2 rw2 of z
    _ -> case hClose handle2 rw2 of -- well-typed double free???
        (# (), rw4 #) -> return (# Ur (), rw4 #)
```

Here's reverse-binder-swap doing something hard to wrap your head around wrt
linearity:

```haskell
-- close :: Handle -o IO (String, Int)

f handle rw =
  let x = close handle rw
   in case x of z
        (# (a,b), rw2 #) -> do_things_to z

==Reverse binder swap==>

f handle rw =
  let x = close handle rw
   in case x of z
        (# (a,b), rw2 #) -> do_things_to x -- ok, x is a thunk, we evaluate it here

==Float out==>

f handle rw =
  let x = close handle rw
      y = do_things_to x -- ok, x is a thunk, we evaluate it here
  in case x of z
       (# (a,b), rw2 #) -> y
```
Why do we still only close the handle once? Because $x$ is a thunk, so when we
evaluate it as part of the case scrutinee, we perform the effect, and save in
the evaluated thunk the values it returns. Using $y$ will use the values stored
in the evaluated thunk of $x$, so the effect is not computed again.

What about here:
```haskell
f handle2 rw2 =
  case hClose handle2 rw2 of z
    _ -> case hClose handle2 rw2 of -- well-typed double free?
        (# (), rw4 #) -> return (# Ur (), rw4 #)
```

Far fetched: perhaps this has some correlation with temporal logic, in which the
resources in the case alternative have somehow a different time and can't be
used? The scrutinee is unused until something?

Regarding the double free we can currently type: at least we'll get rid of the
darned "scrutinee environment" for the case expressions. It will make the
normal binder-swap unsound though.
